# Creating job files for Elecrow PCBA

The Gerber files are created as usual and combined into an archive (e.g. ZIP) file.

In addition Elecrow requires an Excel XLSX spreadsheet containing 4 sheets.

The first sheet is a summary of the PCB job settings, see the example included and modify as required for your project. The sheet should be named PCB Specification.

The second sheet is the BOM. elecrowbom.ini is a configuration file to pass to KiBOM to generate the BOM CSV file. See the comments at the top of the file. The sheet should be called BOM. These fields need editing:

* MPN: Manufacturer part number
* SMD: Number of SMD pads for the parts, e.g. 2x for 2 pad parts
* THT: Number of THT pads for the parts, e.g. 2x for 2 wire parts
* Original: Y or N if equivalent allowed

The third sheet is the parts mapping file. It's a printout with the pads and references of the parts to be assembled. In KiCad this can be generated by printing the PCB in B&W with these layers enabled: F_Silkscreen and F_Courtyard. This sheet should be called Parts Placement.

The fourth sheet is the component position list. toelecrowpos.py is a Python program that takes as argument the CSV file generated using the Fabrication Output to POS file action under File, and outputs to stdout a CSV file with the headers and fields like Elecrow wants them. For SMD you would use the top POS file and ignore the bottom POS file. This sheet should be called Position File.

Parts you don't want assembled should be culled from BOM and Position File sheets.

Combine the four sheets into one spreadsheet. In LibreOffice this can be done using Insert Sheet from File. Export to Excel XLSX format.

Remark: I hope Elecrow can simplify the process, which requires interaction by email with their customer service department and is complex compared to the online facility of JLCPCB. I have written to them about this but have not had a response as of the date of this document.
